### Chapter 13

## Packages and Imports
It is important to minimize *coupling* -- the extent to which the various parts
of the program rely on the other parts.

### 13.1 Putting code in packages

You can place contents of an entire file into a package by putting package clause at the top
of the file

    package bobsrocket.navigation
    class Navigator
###### Listing 13.1

We can also package using curly braces so we can put different parts of a file
in different packages:
    
    package bobsrocket{
       package navigation{
            // In package bobsrockets.navigation
            class Navigator

            package tests {
                // In package bobsrocket.navigation.tests
                class NavigatorSuite
            }
        }
    }
###### Listing 13.3
    package bobsrockets {
        package navigation {
            class Navigator {
                // No need to say bobsrockets.navigation.StarMap
                val map = new StarMap
            }
            class StarMap
        }
        class Ship {
            // No need to say bobsrockets.navigation.Navigator
            val nav = new navigation.Navigator
        }
        package fleets {
            class Fleet {
                // No need to say bobsrockets.Ship
                def addShip() = { new Ship }
            }
        }
    }
###### Listing 13.4
### 13.2 Concise access to related code
Listing 13.4 gives three simple examples:

- First, a class can be accessed directly from within the same package without a prefix.

- Second, a package itself can be accessed from its containing package without a prefix.

- Third, all names accessible in scopes outside the packaging are also available inside it.

This kind of access is only available if you explicitly nest packaging. 


    
    package bobsrockets {
        class Ship
    }
    package bobsrockets.fleets {
        class Fleet {
            // Doesn't compile! Ship is not in scope.
            def addShip() = { new Ship }
        }
    }

###### Listing 13.5

In Listing 13.5, we moved bobsrockets.fleets to the top level. Since its no longer enclosed
in bobsrockets package, then names in bobsrockets are not in scope and therefore cannot be 
directly accessed, hence, new Ship will not compile.

### 13.3 Imports
Import clause makes package members and objects accessible by name without needing to add prefix.

    package bobsdelights
    abstract class Fruit(
        val name: String,
        val color: String
    )
    object Fruits {
        object Apple extends Fruit("apple", "red")
        object Orange extends Fruit("orange", "orange")
        object Pear extends Fruit("pear", "yellowish")
        val menu = List(Apple, Orange, Pear)
    }
###### Listing 13.7

Consider Listing 13.7, import clause makes members of a package or object available by their names,
for example:
    
    // Easy access to all members of bobsdelights
    import bobsdelights._

    // Easy access to Fruit
    import bobsdelights.Fruit
    
    //Easy access to members of Fruits
    import bobsdelights.Fruits._

Scala imports are much more general. For one, imports can appear anywhere:
    
    def showFruit(fruit: Fruit) = {
        import fruit._
        println(name + "s are" + color)
    }

showFruit method imports all members of its parameter fruit. The subsequent println can refer to
name and color directly.

Basically, Scala's imports can:
- appear anywhere
- refer to objects (singleton or regular) in addition to packages
- let you rename and hide some of the imported members

Imports in Scala can also rename or hide members. This is done with *import selector clause*
enclosed in braces. Examples:

    import Fruits.{Apple, Orange}

This imports only Apple and Oranges from object Fruits.

    import Fruits.{Apple => McIntosh, Orange}
This imports Apple and Orange but renames Apple to McIntosh. So this object can be accessed as
Fruits.Apple or McIntosh.

    import java.sql.{Date => SDate}
This imports the SQL date class as SDate, so that you can simultaneously import the normal
Java date class as Simply Date.

    import java.{sql => S}
This imports the java.sql package as S, so that you can write things like S.Date.

    import Fruits.{Apple => McIntosh, _}
This imports everything in Fruits but renames Apple to McIntosh.

    imports Fruits.{Pear => _, _}
This imports all members of Fruits except pear.

### 13.4 Implicit imports
Scala implicitly imports 3 packages for every source file with the extension ".scala".
    import java.lang._ // everything in java.lang package
    import scala._
    import Predef._
These three are treated a bit specially in that later imports overshadow earlier ones.
For instance, StringBuilder is defined in both scala and java package. Because Scala overshadows
the java.lang import, the simple name StringBuilder will refer to scala.StringBuilder, not java.lang.StringBuilder.


### 13.5 Access modifiers
Scala private modifier is a bit different from Java's. Consider nested classes, private fields
are only visible to inner classes and the class containing it, for example:
    
    class Outer {
        class Inner {
            private def f(){...}
            class InnerMost {
                f() // ok
            }
        }
        f() // not accessible
    }
###### List 13.10
Unlike Java, f() would be accessible in Outer, but in scala, only the class containing it and inner classes
can use it.

#### Protected members
Scala's access to protected members is also more restrictive than Java. In Scala, a protected member is only accessible
from subclasses of the class in which the member is defined. In Java such accesses are also possible from other classes
in the same package.

    package p {
        class Super {
            protected def f() = { println("f") }
        }
        class Sub extends Super {
            f()
        }
        class Other {
            (new Super).f() // error: f is not accessible
        }
    }
###### Listing 13.11

Access to f is ok in Sub because Sub extends Super, but call to f in Other will fail in Scala.
By contrast in Java the later will work because they are in the same package.

#### Public members
Any member not labeled private or protected are public.

    package bobsrockets
    package navigation {
        private[bobsrockets] class Navigator {
            protected[navigation] def useStarChart() = {}
            class LegOfJourney {
                private[Navigator] val distance = 100
            }
                private[this] var speed = 200
        }
    }
    package launch {
        import navigation._
        object Vehicle {
            private[launch] val guide = new Navigator
        }
    }

###### Listing 13.12

#### Scope of protection
Listing 13.12 presents examples of qualified access modifiers. Class Navigator is labeled private[bobsrockets]
this means that this class can be used anywhere within the package.


#### Visibilty and companion objects
A class shares all access rights to companion objects and vice versa. In particular, an object can
access all private members of its companion class, and the class can access private members of its companion object.

### 13.6 Package objects
Every package allows one package object declared at the top level of the file. 

    